Here in this greenhouse Ferris and I are watching the flowers change, and I see them unfolding in miraculous ways. Ferris knew I had something of a green thumb, he could tell in that knowing way he knows. You met him when you dropped me off, I think… big hairy man, but hairy in a way that a dog is hairy, where it seems to cover him from head to toe but isn’t strange or out of place on him. He carries a beard with him wherever he goes, but you don’t even notice because of his swarthy face and the many other places where his hair grows. Ah, to be young and handsome again! I must have taken a liking to him because he reminds me of the way I used to be, before I felt the weight of the world come crashing down.

You have no idea, you couldn’t possibly have any idea what I have learned in my time here — nothing to do with plants, though, or hairy men, alas! I was so convinced you'd sent me on this retreat because you were sick of me, because I was a paranoid and obnoxious fool. I’m sure that that’s what the Exogenous would have convinced you of, and you would be scared of their demands, considering everything that I’ve shared with you. Foolish, cowardly Ria! …I'd said to you — perhaps not out loud (I was more or less mute at the time) but in my heart of hearts I believed that you were a coward, and there is nothing less damning in this world to be a coward, except to be a traitor. But now my heart says different things, sings a new song, and speaks a new language. And if I ever cursed you, or doubted you, I am sorry. We have to work with the wind wherever it takes us, and even if it is turning on us, we have to make our own new paths.

Ria, I must admit that I did not understand what I was going through at the time, but I have a better understanding of it now. I am only privy to a small portion of it, only to narrow sketches back and forth, like sailboats tacking into the wind, but I can still see far ahead and far behind us and many worlds have I seen. And now I have some purpose in life, and a revived character with which to face it. I have a mission where before I had only depression and fear.

I’ve spent years seeking this, ever since I was a child. There has always been something nagging at me about the very nature of our existence, either pushing me or pulling me forward into the unknown. I have always come at the mysteries of life with vigorous curiosity, as you’ve probably gathered from the verbose speeches I gave to you. Passionate speeches that you've reminded me many times were the things that first attracted you. But it’s always been with some impatience, and dangerous haste, that I hunt these passions. And I know that I left you in the dust far too many times. (I can’t apologize to you too many times in this letter, but I will try.)

Lo and behold, it was that final break from you and your sending me here to this madhouse. And don’t deny it's a madhouse, Ria! I love you and I love this place but I knew from the start you told me to go here because you thought I was insane, because the Exogenous told you I was *criminally* insane and *dangerous*… But in the magical way the universe works, your intuition was sound. What you did was more protective of me than you could have imagined, even if you didn’t know that you were doing it for that reason. The universe knows we love each other, Ria, and that you want to keep me safe! I still have to be careful because I think that some of the Watchers report directly to the Interface, whether they know it or not, but many of them are still so innocent to not have been touched by it — they leave their poisons at the door.

There is a sort of society here, among the tenants, and it is a much healthier society than that which pervades the outside world, if only because it arises naturally. There are young and old men, and they sort themselves into little families — no one, not even the most lost

 Sometimes the Watchers try to intervene in our politicking, but more often than not we are the ones who do the bulk of the work. I’ve even been privy to a couple conflicts that were generated out of thin air, simply for the amusement of the Watchers. It was an impressive feint, they clearly had no idea what was going on, or why. I’m sure that some corrupted data was fed into the Interface after that situation… and that’s what I’d like to see more of in the outside world, Ria!

I am lucky to know Ferris because of this, he was someone higher-up in the hierarchy who quickly recognized my fight, and wanted to help in whatever way he could. He called the Exogenous by a different name, many names in fact. Foreign ones I can’t pronounce (probably from fiction) but they still tormented him in his once or twice daily episodes. It was sad to see at first, but our community is strong and supportive of Ferris because he is a joyous presence in this place. He supports the rest of us as we support him, he sticks up for us to the Watchers, and we know that he is too big and strong to have yet been poisoned. The demons slip into his cranium, and he writhes and squirms on the floor in a furious ritual battle, and within a few minutes he has exiled them, pushed them back to the hell realm or wherever they are from.

After a couple of weeks living here, I started seeing strange things. At first they appeared as little traces or holograms in the corners of my vision. It’s hard to describe the way I perceived them then, compared to now, now that I now what they were. I originally thought that they were ghosts, partial spirit objects. The kinds from ancient horrors and tragedies, from modern warfare and suffering, from the works of fiction that Ferris devours, and all the kinds of common stories that go along with them. Inhuman but fragments of humans, maybe, or just pure ectoplasm.

At first they were vibrating and sparkling in my sight, but that might just have been a feature of peripheral vision, that most unreliable of narrators. But these things had shapes that defied peripheral or even just poor vision. They couldn’t be explained by floaters or cataracts. These entities often startled me by showing up when I was completely focused on something else. But if I was distracted by them, they would disappear. I had to pretend I didn’t see them, while still being aware of them in order to gather information. More than I ever really saw them, I sensed their presence.

Over time I tried to correlate their appearances with environmental factors. I started seeing them with more and more regularity, and began knowing where and when to look for them. Any moment of in-between time, unstructured time, a moment out of time — *non-Kronological* time — there would likely be a ghost lingering, where you didn’t expect it. They would often appear while the rest of us were sleeping, in the dark, and I could even sense them in the aether through my sleep, as if they were intruding on my very dreams. I would be lying if I said it wasn’t somewhat frightening.

Naturally, I told no one of these visions, or these entities, since the Exogenous would likely have tracked me down in mere hours if I spoke up. As time passed, and got better at paying attention and knowing where to find them, I came up with several wild theories. I initially believed that each ghost was being *carried* by someone else, one of my colleagues in this place. As if these people had *echoes*, were accompanied by traces of their past, maybe even their future. Then I decided that these were no more human than a lamp or a chair, that they were some things from another dimension, intruding into our world, into my mind. This latter hypothesis turned out to be more or less the truth.

There was an old man in our community. His name was Mr. Wom, or at least that’s what everybody called him. He had been sick and frail since long before I got there. One morning he unexpectedly died, in the garden where Ferris and I tended flowers and vegetables. He was a kind man, to everyone… and possibly due to that foresight that dying people have where they know exactly when and how they will be taken from the earth. Maybe he was crotchety when he showed up, long ago, and his soul was warmed by the sweet country air that cleansed him of his sin and the forgiveness of his God. I could tell by his reputation with the Watchers that his charisma preceded him, but his wisdom was new. And then, when both charisma and wisdom could carry him no more, he simply walked into the garden, sat down, and fell asleep for ever. A romantic way to go!

But I was out there in the garden when he died, watching everything… and the moment he sat down I had an impression that he was going to die, as he must have had. From somewhere along an incomprehensible axis came a wind, oh, the wind that pushes and pulls at our vessels, Ria! Did I ever tell you about my uncle’s sailboat, Ria? He took me out into the bay a few times, he even taught me how to steer, but I wouldn't learn much more than that. I was scared of the sails when I was a kid, confused by the complicated knots and intimidated by the wind. Can you believe it! Me, scared of a little Atlantic wind! The winds of the bay were nothing compared to this. It came roaring in swiftly, screaming in, like a gale, like a *hurricane* — and without moving a single hair on my head! Somehow I could feel it, I just can’t explain it, I can’t even explain it now. (It is like a distant memory now.)

As Mr. Wom began to relax, began to fade away, one of these echoes appeared beside him. The thing was clear as day, not even hiding itself in my periphery. I stared straight at it. It reached out to Mr. Wom and touched him, made physical contact, and immediately it began to glow! The figure was slowly filling with light, as Mr. Wom slumped over more and more in his dying moments — it almost looked like it was sucking the energy from him! I wanted to scream, yell at it to stop, but I found myself totally powerless, transfixed and fascinated.

The steward of the old man's soul vanished just as abruptly as it had arrived. I got up from a wicker chair in which I had been sitting and ran over to the old man, bent him up, and looked into his eyes. They were blank. All the light had vanished from them.

The Watchers believed me — thank goodness! — when I told them I did not accelerate or enable his passing in any way. When they asked me how I knew he'd died, I shrugged and said I couldn’t explain, I'd just had a feeling — mumbled something about a light that had gone from this world.

I didn't stop seeing the shadows after that. In fact, I became *better* at seeing them, and they started appearing more clearly in my field of vision, not just in passing glances. Eventually they began to resemble humanoid shapes, and I even believed that they were starting to contain color, and even faces! But it was hard to describe what those faces and colors looked like, Ria, because even as the things appeared more prominently they were still impossible to actually *look* at. It was almost as if they were obscured by my own mind. I could never quite center them in my awareness, or take a deep breath and sit still for the good long look of a practiced scientist. It was as if eyeball floaters began to evolve from little worms and gain sentience, and jolted away when you tried to inspect them. What's more, the shapes started to become distinct enough that I was sure there were multiple ghosts, not just one — some remained bigger, smaller, differently proportioned … some lighter, darker, more translucent or opaque, or just a slightly different shade of air.

Before too long I was going to slip up and admit my secret sight to someone untrustworthy. One of the more malicious Watchers would catch me staring off into space, ask me what I was looking at, and without thinking I would try to anthropomorphize the Phantom, bestow upon it a name or a personality — a dead giveaway for a lunatic! And they might record this information into the Interface and I'd just end up being codified as another maniac among the many here, a crazy man with a deep psychosis — psychosis in the environment begets the same in the individual, after all! — and then they'd put me on some kind of regimen of drugs (or worse) and I'd never see these strange things again. How terrible to make a fully mad man out of a half-mad man when you're trying to make him not mad at all!

Though it took a lot longer in retrospect than it should have, I finally came upon a chilling hypothesis, one that I must have tried so hard to deny. I could see these phantoms, and I saw them take away the life of Mr. Wom. And Mr. Wom, in his gradual but no less fulfilling acceptance of death, must have seen them too — which could only mean that it must be near my time to leave this world as well. It was the only explanation I could assuage myself with for why I was seeing these creatures! Mr. Wom  had known what they were there for, and upon accepting their gift he'd let himself be gathered up in the garden by his guardian angel, spirited away to the next world, to the great beyond.

And though I was shocked by this revelation, I was not disappointed. My life has been a long nightmare, Ria — despite your boundless love! You know this. For decades I have never been able to find the key that will unlock the door to my heart in this life. And it's been a complete, miserable failure. So I was willing to try my luck at the next life instead. I am ashamed to admit in hindsight that it was not a difficult decision to make! The veil between life and death for me now was growing thinner and thinner and thinner, and I was ready to give up on the cruelty and mercilessness of the plague that is overtaking this earth, and thought I might have more happiness in the gilded halls of Heaven.

So after much internal grieving, introversion, introspection, and prayer, I found myself sitting in the garden on a beautifully clear morning, in the same spot that Mr. Wom had been when he was taken. A passive invitation for the spirits to come down and swoop me away, sitting in a place proven to be a peaceful one for a man's final moments.

I sat, and I waited. It was a beautiful late spring day, and a light breeze was blowing. The field that surrounded the garden gently shimmered, with the movement of tall wild grasses. I watched the tops of trees and bushes sway in the wind, I watched cottony clumps of clouds move slowly across the sky. I smelled the last of spring's blossoms dance across the breeze, amplifying my sense of peace. I listened to a cacophony of birds from the garden's brush and the woods beyond. I stared directly into the sun, ready to reach for the light of the bardo.

To my utter surprise, I did not have to wait very long. The phantom wind picked up, and they began to congregate densely around me within minutes. The bench I sat on faced a little fountain surrounded by low brush flowers, and they seemed to almost rise up out of the fountain before me, as fluid as the water flowing from it, and reconstituting themselves into the blurry, fuzzy shapes I was familiar with. They came sprouting from the flowers of the shrubbery, out of the tips of the needles of the fir trees, and raining down gently from the clouds above my head.

I had never seen more than one or two of these phantoms at a time, but now there were *hundreds!* They were everywhere, small as insects and large as elephants. Their blurred edges began to cloud my vision and other senses with chaos and confusion. The birds and wind became muffled and were replaced with an intense pressure on my eardrums, the pressure of ultimate silence beyond silence.

I began to cry, not just from fear or sadness, but from joy and catharsis — and every other emotion, all at the same time. *This is the end!*

But I felt no phantom coming so close to me, none deigning to reach out and tear my soul from my body. They kept a respectable distance from me and my bench as they circled round, walking past and through each other, moving up and down in open space. And more humanlike figures seemed to show up with every passing moment.

*Perhaps they're not here to take me*, I thought. There was only one ghost for the old man… why am I receiving the company of hundreds, possibly... *thousands?* Maybe I was just slipping into total insanity, at an accelerated pace.

Then when I could see and hear no more of my world in any direction, a voice broke the silence and the void. A small voice, trying to fight its way through the fog and grasping at emptiness. The first thing it tried to tell me was its name.

Their name.

They were the Ethereal Ones.

I could sense they were just as nervous as I was about this first contact. They did not communicate through sound or sensation, but seemed to penetrate straight into my mind. The words that came forth from them I did not really hear, and the images that they showed me I could not really see. Their communication was entirely localized within my mind. I closed my eyes to the incomprehensible fog around me, and shut my ears to the silence, and let myself drift into their thoughts as if they were my own.

From what I could gather at first, they were alien creatures from the distant past — or distant future? — it was hard to relate exactly what they said, Ria, but I am trying. Since what they told me and showed me in our encounter is such a part of my soul now, and the alterations in my perception of reality have taken place in the very beating of my heart, it’s very difficult for me to relay to you what I learned, and *when* I learned it, during this encounter. The meeting seemed to take an eternity, and yet was over in an instant. The timeline is all jumbled. But the journey is just as important as the destination, and so the story must be written down as accurately as I can relay it.

The Ethereal Ones were certainly not of this earthly domain, but they were not the lost souls of living humans or anything else that has walked the planet, corporeal or otherwise. They seemed to be highly evolved life forms that had transcended the very particles of matter that make up you or I. The fact I could see them, or perceive them at all, was a miracle — they'd spent ages trying to incorporate themselves into my awareness — our awareness — in a way that mattered; and when they noticed that I'd noticed them, they reached out to make contact.

They showed me things about the universe that not even the greatest living astronomer has yet discovered. They showed me interstellar objects I had heard of only in passing: dead stars, black holes, distant galaxies and galactic superclusters — and things I could have never dreamed of, like what lies in the empty space between planets and stars. And millions — *millions* — of *living* distant worlds, inhabiting life-forms unrecognizable to us — life both primitive and complex, thriving in the most brutal and extreme environments, fighting for their existence in a universe of mostly empty space. And, just like us, wondering where all the extra-terrestrials were.

And then — Ria, you would not believe how amazing this was — they took me forward in time, to the end of my life on this earth, right to the very brink of death, and you were there, Ria, and all of my family and our family was there, and strangers and people I never met and those I never thought I would see again — sitting at the bedside here and there, next to a dying old man. It was as picturesque as you could read in novels. And as a great stillness entered my body, just like I had watched Mr. Wom’s immortal soul be carried off by a figure of light, I too was ready to be spirited away.

But it did not feel like wasting away, Ria. I was transported into a new body, a new world! Time stood still, and as this body lay dying a figure of light was born in its place, and I could feel myself entering this strange new body, this new life, a child elsewhere in the world, another creature somewhere in space and time.

But this creature was very strange. I was shown its life accelerated, and much more became clear to me. I could've imagined coming back as another animal, or a parasite, or even some lonely bacterium on a rock flying through space — but somehow I entered into a world where I *did not have a body!* Somehow it felt like my existence was like… a focused thought, or an idea — a Platonic form! I had been reborn as one of the Ethereal Ones, or at least a miniature version of one, and as time passed in this creature's life I began to have a greater understanding of where they'd come from. I could see out of the corner of my eye, or on a parallel plane, my old life, moving *backwards*, from death to birth and beyond (the Ethereal Ones lived much longer than mere humans). And, eventually, this new being passed away, and turned to stone, his body no longer a cloud but alike a rock, and then… the rock changed…

I was born again, back into the material plane. Here I was another human, a woman, who I saw live briefly (at least in this accelerated demonstration!) before I was once thrust again into the ethereal plane.

Over and over I was shuffled in and out of future incarnations, yet going forwards and backwards in time like a seesaw. I was a mouse, then I was a passing thought, then I was an ant, then I was a fleeting photonic being. Always from corporeal to ethereal and back again.

The Ethereal Ones explained to me that the universe is comprised of one immortal soul, moving forwards and backwards in time, experiencing everything as mere pieces of itself. Forwards it goes as a *being* in the material world, our world — and then backwards in this strange landscape of forms, where space did not exist but was some other thing entirely — somehow immaterial. And this single soul, in all its incarnations, was within the universe and was the universe itself, observing itself and its own duality, from the level of bacteria to the immensity of leviatha. The Ethereal Ones told me of anti-matter, of the positrons and the antiprotons that made up their world, and caused wondrous things to occur on the boundaries between theirs and ours, whose interactions were the source of light, thought, and perception. Like the legends of Prometheus, or Lucifer, these particles had flipped their realities, bringing the yin and the yan of the universe together, causing things to *happen*.

Faster and faster was I transported through the universe, rapidly through every incarnation of myself, and found that overall we were rocketing *forwards* in time, to the very end of all time and of all creation. And there we stopped, momentarily.

I, or at least the great soul, had become the last living thing, a great wisdom that seemed barely corporeal but still enmeshed and embodied, somehow rooted in a diffuse entropic mass of the remains of galaxies and stars. I was akin to a great tree, or maybe more accurately an immense mycelium, that had planted itself in the very fabric of spacetime aeons ago and now whose roots and branches stretched across all matter. I had incorporated every speck of space dust into my conscious awareness. I held the ancestry of infinity within my being, the entire history of all matter and all living things. I was composed of everything, and observed nothing but myself in all my magnificent glory. I was the greatest living creature of all time, the pinnacle of God’s creation.

But I was old and sick and dying, and the tree could not bear fruit. And I was in pain. My universe was broken, misshapen, and… the demons of the other world spun all around me, waiting to feast on my flesh postmortem — and I was helpless, completely helpless, even more helpless than I was as a mere human upon the Earth, for I was so big and beautiful and yet completely *powerless* — there was no hope, no hope at all for me. Oh, Ria, it was horrible! You can't even imagine the pain and sorrow and suffering of millennia upon millennia watching the *totality of being* die before its time.

With great lamentation, as if they were experiencing this feeling themselves, the Ethereal Ones plucked me out of the Great Mycelium of Time's End, and transplanted me, weeping, back into the dust of the Big Bang, and I watched as the dust of my body entered into the great back-and-forth of life and death once again.

The Ethereal Ones told me that the universe is… sick. Like the Earth was sick. They told me something was wrong with the balance between these dualities, the material and the immaterial. I did not understand them, I was still so distraught by that image of great annihilation. So as a further demonstration they imported into my skull a model of the universe, the entire history of spacetime.

The universe as I saw it, at my point in time, was like an oblong sphere. I saw its compressive singularity at the start, its subsequent rapid expansion, and the slow formation of stars and planetary bodies as the universe began to cool and take the forms I was familiar with. But as I moved forward along the time axis the shape of spacetime began to distort, first bending into a horseshoe, then almost into a cylinder. Eventually the model could not hold itself up — the edges of the universe crumpled and crinkled like a wad of paper, its surfaces eventually collapsing and crashing into itself, destroying the boundaries and causing great pain to my mind as it tried to process the model on its substrate.

It should be a cycle, they said. The last soul should be able to reach the far end of creation and find complete collapse, another total singularity, from which another universe can be born. The grand overture and stunning finale simultaneously, both of which could be notated and performed as a continuous piece by the Orchestra of Time.

But they couldn't find it, they couldn’t find the proper beginning or the end. The balance of the universe was off somehow. The *entire universe!* There was more of them than there was of us, they said. More anti-matter than matter, more anti-energy than energy. More anti-existence than existence. The excess seeped into our world too, destroying matter, tearing into our animal minds and into massive stars with equal force, destroying them.

The Ethereal Ones had tried to insert themselves into this side of the universe, had tried to take on the forms of us material bodies many times — but to little or no avail. Most had died trying, their souls rent and reconstituted in unpredictable ways. But they had kept trying to reach us. They *had* to warn the other side somehow. This was the best they could offer before their kind perished — to ride the little waves of chaos and sparks of energy that crossed over from their world into ours. It was not easy to come here and attempt to communicate, and such grand failures they had had. But they'd made it their mission, the bedrock of their fading civilization even, and so they must see it through. It simply had to be done.

They'd managed to reach out to *me*, and so were glad. But I continued to weep before them, for I had seen the entire history of creation and it was broken — it was imperfect. The universe, the very fabric of existence itself, was a failure, an unbalanced equation. Nothing made sense because there was a flaw in the design of reality. My hopes of salvation spiraled into nothingness.

Mercifully, they comforted me — by telling me they could not comprehend *my* future, equivalent to their past. There was a missing link. They explained that their demonstration of my death had simply been a simulation, based on magnificently complex models of a size almost approaching their equivalent of the Great Tree. They were using almost all of their resources to compute it, in a universe countless aeons old to them but a mere few billion years to us, to power this simulation. Their immaterial bodies were part of the machinery — or rather, the anti-machinery — that performed its calculations.

This is why they had contacted me with this knowledge. They thought I might be able to do something that would change the fate of the universe, change the fabric of reality. They could see that somehow my true existence, deviated from their model, had altered spacetime enough that their model of the past could not be accounted for, and they'd wanted to close the gap. Perhaps my soul would deviate from the norm, perhaps I begin a crusade against the demons that overflow into our reality. Oh, Ria, that gave me such hope! I have been wanting to do such a crusade for a long time!

With the reassurance and the missive given, they vanished.

I was left all alone in the garden, not a soul near me. No time had passed.

I got up on shaky legs and felt the earth beneath my feet, felt the substance and the heaviness, and almost broke into a dance! I rejoiced in the splendor of Being, of Creation, in a way that I could have never conceived of before. Oh, to be full of life and full of grace, to be a body embedded in this world of matter!

For a long time I thought about what the Ethereal Ones had showed me. I admired them, so powerful and yet concerned beyond themselves. Concerned about the fate of a world they could barely even touch.

But I've been thinking about it more — in fact, mostly as I write it all down for you, Ria — I'm starting to see that they the Ethereal Ones were *wrong*. Their doomsdaying was built upon an oversight, one that would be disheartening if it wasn't so unintentionally *perfect*.

My existence is simply a *bug*, an incomplete equation, in their model of Everything. That small percent of the universe not yet understood. Potentially, through our encounter, they have tried to learn something about me, something that they can add to the equation, so it may balance itself better.

The Etheral Ones have the resources to simulate the universe, right? And the great bulk of it, let's say 99.99% of it, is successfully modeled in the simulation. And they cannot find the ends of time, because their incomplete model cannot model an complete existence! Even as they get to 99.999%, to 99.9999999%, they will continue to wonder why the universe appears incomplete, and it is because their simulation of the universe is always, always incomplete.

And how do they find all of that computing power to model such a complex thing? It is simple, Ria — *they use the universe itself!* We have material tools to rearrange immateriality. Why shouldn't they do the same thing with their substrate, reaching out for matter to understand how their anti-matter is made? Their model of 99.99% of the universe is running off of the stuff of *their* universe, and either they don't realize it, or they have become so accustomed to it that they don't think it is unusual or revolutionary in the slightest.

So imagine, Ria, what happens when their simulation finally reaches 100%! At that point the simulation would be using the entire universe, and be drawing all its processing power from the universe — and so it *becomes* the universe. And then that false universe, the modeled universe, ceases to become a model, and their universe ceases from being false and becomes real. *We are living in the result of their complete simulation!* The old world dies and the new one is born from its ashes.

And now, after millions and billions of eons, when the end of our universe is reached and the Great Tree at the End of Time has joined with the very last atom of matter, when it fills the void and all the empty space with its consciousness — finally our side of the universe will have reached its completion. Then the mycelial network will become the basis for their anti-universe, and the cycle will continue.

It is never-ending, Ria — a loop that folds back in on itself. A constantly swinging pendulum from being to un-being, from time forwards to time backwards, between the life of animals and that of thought-forms. Our universe is not *broken*, it is simply perfectly dual, and they would know this if they'd listened to their own past! …our future! Just like ourselves, the Ethereal Ones have simply lost their understanding of the perfectness of the universe, as they fold the landscape of thought into their simulation, separated from them. They will find, in the end when they have no choice but to join with their simulation, to insert their very beings into the equation, that the universe is a perfect circle. And you can place your bisecting endpoints at any point on the circle and there will be an infinite number of expressions in either direction.

The universe, in fooling them, and in fooling us, is acting *exactly* as intended.

This is my theory, at least. Both of our universes being the same universe, simulating and encompassing each other. It is all so *simple*, but more importantly, it is *beautiful*. Through all our human suffering, and all our hopelessness, the universe remains healthy in its infinity, good in its endless repetition, and we are but mere parts of it, waiting for, *striving* for, the ecstasies of completed being at the end of time. And the Ethereal Ones, in their beatitude, strive in their understanding for the ecstasy at the opposite end.

I know I won't be able to relay this to our friends on the other side, for I haven't seen them since and probably will never see them again. But I thank them for their contribution, and hope that when they reach the end of their universe, it is with as big a bang as we can hope for.

It goes without saying, Ria, but keep all this to yourself… don't tell even your most trusted friends, or the Exogenous might do horrible things to me! Although… I suppose that they are only human after all, like you or me, and only following that desire to be totalizing, to become like that Great Tree. Perhaps they will swallow everything, in the end… but perhaps it will be us, Ria, that does it instead!
